<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>How Finance Works</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="body">
<section epub:type="acknowledgments" role="doc-acknowledgments" aria-labelledby="ack">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="BMH" id="ack"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_267" aria-label="267"></span><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Acknowledgments</span></h1>
</hgroup>
<p class="noindent">This book wouldn’t have been possible without the feedback of the many Harvard MBA and executive education students who have inspired me with their curiosity and perseverance. Through hours of teaching group meetings and hallway conversations about the best way to teach finance, my colleagues in the Finance Unit have contributed greatly to this book. My director of research at Harvard Business School, Cynthia Montgomery, and the dean of HBS, Nitin Nohria, have been particularly encouraging and generous.</p>
<p>The teaching approach embodied in the book was born out of the efforts to create the Harvard Business School Online course, <i>Leading with Finance</i>. Bharat Anand and Patrick Mullane were instrumental in encouraging me to undertake that effort and in making the course a reality. Brian Misamore was a fantastic partner in creating that course from whole cloth, and Peter Kuliesis helped in many thoughtful ways. I’m particularly grateful to all the students who inspired me to translate the approach from the course into a book.</p>
<p>The idea for the book came from the generous mind of Tim Sullivan; his encouragement was pivotal in making this book happen. Kevin Evers was a terrific partner at Harvard Business Review Press. He guided me through the process and contributed greatly to shaping the manuscript. Anne Starr was the perfect production editor—organized, tough, and ultimately forgiving. Brian Misamore and Leanne Fan provided excellent research assistance as we completed the manuscript, and Lucas Ramirez provided very helpful feedback. Darlene Le expertly managed to keep me focused on the tasks at hand.</p>
<p>Teena Shetty and Mia, Ila, and Parvati Desai continue to provide the ultimate inspiration—they’ve taught me so much about the way the world should work. This book wouldn’t have been possible without their patience, support, and encouragement.</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>