<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>How Finance Works</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="body">
<section epub:type="conclusion" role="doc-conclusion" aria-labelledby="con">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="chapter-title-bot" id="con"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_223" aria-label="223"></span><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Conclusion</span></h1>
</hgroup>
<p class="noindent"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_225" aria-label="225"></span>Congratulations! I hope you’ve found the process of working your way through this book demanding, rigorous, and fun. I hope you’ve become more comfortable with a variety of financial tools, such as discounted cash flows, ratio analysis, and multiples, and understand the overarching, big ideas of finance. Here’s a recounting of some of those big ideas and suggestions for continuing your journey in the world of finance.</p>
<ul class="BL">
<li class="BL">Capital markets and finance are all about information and incentives, not money. Finance, at its heart, is trying to solve the deepest problem in modern capitalism—the principal-agent problem, or the separation of ownership and control.</li>
<li class="BL">Capital allocation is the most important financial problem facing a CFO and CEO. The question of when to distribute or reinvest cash, whether to grow organically or inorganically, and whether to distribute via repurchases or dividends can occasion tremendous value creation or destruction.</li>
<li class="BL">All value comes from the future, and today’s values reflect expectations of that future value creation. Value creation can only arise from earning returns above and beyond the cost of capital for long periods and reinvesting cash flows at those higher returns.</li>
<li class="BL">Return on equity (ROE) is a critical measure of performance, and these returns are driven by profitability, <span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_226" aria-label="226"></span>productivity, and leverage. Analyzing financial performance requires a comparative and relative framework; no number is meaningful without reference to another and without considering industry and temporal dynamics.</li>
<li class="BL">The idea of profitability is incomplete and problematic because it detracts from the idea of cash. Economic returns are better measured by cash; there are many ways to measure cash—EBITDA, operating cash flow, and, most usefully, free cash flow.</li>
<li class="BL">Valuation is an art, not a science; it is an art informed by science, but the most critical elements of it are subjective, and the process is prone to error. Be mindful of the hidden biases inherent in the process, especially the allure of synergies and the incentives of advisers.</li>
<li class="BL">Returns should correspond to risks, and risks need to be considered in the context of diversified portfolios. Excess returns are hard to earn, and it’s difficult to ascertain whether you’ve ever earned them.</li>
<li class="BL">Managers are the stewards of capital for their capital providers. Delaying the return of capital must be associated with commensurate rewards to compensate for the delay and the risks borne by owners.</li>
<li class="BL">Returning cash to shareholders and various other financing decisions alone won’t create or destroy value. The significance of these decisions arises from the informational problems between managers and capital markets and other imperfections.</li>
</ul>
<section epub:type="division">
<h1 class="head a-head"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Next Steps</span></h1>
<p class="noindent">I hope you consider this book a beginning rather than an ending. With the tools and the skills learned here, you’re on your way to a lifetime of understanding finance. The recipe for value creation should serve you well as you consider the next steps:</p>
<ul class="BL">
<li class="BL">First, invest your precious time well. Pick a set of companies that you’d like to research, track their financial results, and listen to their conference calls. Consume the financial press. Sit down with financial managers in your companies and engage them with probing questions.</li>
<li class="BL">Second, keep growing. Let these intuitions form the basis for further financial knowledge. Teach others <span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_227" aria-label="227"></span>what you’ve learned. Try to go through the exercise in <a href="../Text/chapter_1.xhtml">chapter 1</a> with a loved one. Push your finance friends to see if they really understand the language they’re using.</li>
<li class="BL">Finally, keep at it. Learning finance is a lifelong journey, and the rewards get bigger and bigger as you invest more and more.</li>
</ul>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>