<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>How Finance Works</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="body">
<section epub:type="glossary" role="doc-glossary">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="BMH"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_243" aria-label="243"></span><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Glossary</span></h1>
</hgroup>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">accounts payable</span> A liability account used to show the obligation to pay suppliers that have provided goods or services on credit terms.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">accounts receivable</span> An asset account used to show the claim to receive cash at some future date for goods or services that have been supplied to a customer on credit terms.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">accrual accounting</span> An accounting method most companies follow; required under US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The method follows the revenue recognition principle, which says that revenue should be recognized in the period in which it is earned, not necessarily when the cash is received, and the matching principle, which says that expenses should be recognized in the period in which the related revenue is recognized rather than when the related cash is paid.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">acquisition</span> The process of purchasing a company or asset by an existing company.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">active mutual funds</span> Mutual funds for which managers make active choices regarding which stocks or assets to invest in.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">activist investing</span> An investment strategy that requires the acquisition of a significant portion of a public company’s stock in order to enact significant changes in strategy.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">alpha</span> The excess return of an investment above the suitable risk-adjusted benchmark.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">amortization</span> An accounting method that spreads the cost of an intangible asset across its life. Amortization can also refer to repayment of loan principal over time.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">ask</span> The price a seller is willing to sell for.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">asset turnover</span> The measure of productivity in the DuPont framework. Calculated by dividing the total revenue for a period by the average total assets.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">assets</span> Resources owned or controlled by a business and expected to provide some future economic benefit to the business. Examples include cash, inventory, and equipment.</p>
<p class="GL"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_244" aria-label="244"></span><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">asymmetric information</span> A situation where not all parties involved in a transaction have the same information. In capital markets, this can be associated with the informational advantage of companies, of sellers, or of agents relative to principals.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">balance sheet</span> A financial report that shows the financial position of a company at a specific point in time; it serves as a snapshot of the resources that a company owns or controls and how it financed those resources.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">bankruptcy</span> The process by which companies resolve their inability to pay back their debts.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">beta</span> A measure of risk for an asset in the context of a diversified portfolio. Emphasizes the correlation of the asset’s return with the wider market of investable assets.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">bid</span> The maximum price at which a buyer is willing to buy.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">board of directors</span> A group established to represent and protect the interests of shareholders or a broader group of stakeholders. Directors are normally elected, but can be appointed in certain situations. The board has the most senior level of authority for the company and sets corporate governance policies, monitors the performance of the company, and has hiring authority over the senior executive team.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">book value</span> The accounting value of an asset. Often varies from the market value of the asset because of the conservatism principle and historic cost accounting.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">brokers</span> Agents that handle the transactions of buying and selling shares of public corporations on behalf of clients.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">buy side</span> The class of institutional investors that purchase shares of a company. They typically are pools of capital, such as mutual funds, that serve to buy and hold shares on behalf of a larger group.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">buyout</span> <i>See</i> acquisition.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">capital allocation</span> The process by which free cash flows are allocated to either investing in the business with new projects or M&amp;A or are distributed to shareholders by a dividend or share repurchase.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">capital asset pricing model (CAPM)</span> A framework for pricing risk in the context of a diversified portfolio.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">capital expenditures</span> The money that companies spend to buy fixed assets or assets for long-term use.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">capital intensity</span> A relative measure of capital required to generate future cash flows. A higher intensity implies greater amounts of required capital.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">capital markets</span> Marketplaces where financial claims, such as equity and debt, are bought and sold. In essence, capital markets match suppliers of capital (investors) with users of capital (businesses).</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">capital structure</span> The proportion of debt relative to equity used to finance a company.</p>
<p class="GL"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_245" aria-label="245"></span><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">capitalization</span> The total value of a company’s equity and debt, typically given in market prices.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">carried interest</span> An incentive contract for private equity and hedge fund managers that pays them based on their returns.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cash</span> An asset account that includes currency, checking accounts and, often cash equivalents (deposits or other liquid investments typically redeemable within ninety days).</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cash conversion cycle</span> A measure of the length of time a business takes to pay for inventory from its suppliers to when it collects cash from its customers. Calculated as the days inventory, plus the receivables collection period, minus the days payable.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cash distribution</span> Cash allocated to shareholders through either dividends or share buybacks.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cash flow</span> A measure of the cash a business generates; may refer to EBITDA, operating cash flow, or free cash flow.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cash flow from financing activities</span> The portion of the statement of cash flows for a business that includes all sources and uses of financing. Includes securing or paying off debt principal (loans, bonds, promissory notes) and offering or buying back equity.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cash flow from investing activities</span> The portion of the statement of cash flows for a business that covers all investing activities (i.e., acquisitions and divestitures). Includes investments made in tangible assets like property, plant, and equipment but can also include investing in other companies.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cash flow from operating activities</span> The portion of the statement of cash flows for a business that accounts for all cash generated and used in operations. Sources are all cash generated by sales of products or services, and uses are all cash used in the process of making and delivering the product or service.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">chief financial officer (CFO)</span> The senior executive responsible for all financial transactions and management of the company. Reports to the chief executive officer (CEO) and is ultimately accountable to the board of directors.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">common stock</span> The most typical stock or share type representing an ownership interest in the business. Although there can be different classes of common shares, owners of these shares usually have certain rights, including the right to share proportionately in the profits of the business and the right to elect directors and vote on proposals that the directors make to the shareholders.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">company</span> A legal entity created typically for the purpose of engaging in any type of business with the goal of delivering a product or service for profit. The legal structure for <span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_246" aria-label="246"></span>ownership and liability varies by jurisdiction, but most are classified as some form of sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">conflict of interest</span> A situation in which an individual’s professional and public interests oppose each other.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">conglomerate</span> A company composed of several unrelated businesses, operating somewhat independently, but under a common holding company.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">contingent value right (CVR) instrument</span> The rights given to shareholders of an acquired company to buy more shares of the acquired company or to receive cash.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">control premium</span> The additional value above the current share price associated with the benefits of controlling an entire company.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">correlation</span> A measure of the degree to which two variables move in correspondence with each other.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cost accounting</span> A method that tries to capture a company’s cost of production.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cost of capital</span> The cost to a business for deploying capital as charged by the capital providers.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cost of debt</span> The cost to a business for raising debt, usually measured as a percentage rate for borrowing; can also be measured in annual dollar costs.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cost of equity</span> The cost to a business for raising equity. Unlike the cost of debt, this cost is not explicit but is measured as an expected rate of return (%) to investors; can also be measured in annual dollar costs.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cost of financial distress</span> The costs a company bears by being in financial distress (e.g., the loss of talent or suppliers demanding immediate payment instead of paying in thirty or sixty days).</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cost of goods sold (COGS)</span> The expense corresponding to the cost of the inventory that is sold to customers; may also be called cost of sales.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">cost structure</span> An analysis of the component costs of a product or service, including fixed costs and variable costs.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">credit spread</span> The interest rate difference or premium a company must pay above the risk-free interest rate to account for the risk of its business.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">current assets</span> Cash and other assets that are expected to be converted into cash within a year (or within one operating cycle, if the company’s operating cycle is longer than one year).</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">current liabilities</span> The liability account that contains obligations that will be settled or paid in cash within a year (or within one operating cycle, if the company’s operating cycle is longer than one year).</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">current ratio</span> A measurement of a business’s ability to pay its short-term obligations. Calculated by dividing current assets by current liabilities.</p>
<p class="GL"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_247" aria-label="247"></span><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">days inventory</span> A component of the cash conversion cycle that measures the average number of days the inventory is held before it is sold. Calculated by dividing average inventory by the cost of goods sold (COGS) per day. Alternatively calculated by dividing 365 by the inventory turnover.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">debt</span> A financial obligation to a lender that has a fixed rate of return. The principal amount loaned is paid back to the lender either on demand or on a planned payment schedule. If a company encounters financial difficulty or dissolves, the debt holders have priority for repayment over stockholders and can take control of the assets.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">defined benefit</span> An employer-sponsored retirement plan in which employee retirement benefits are defined by certain factors (e.g., length of employment or salary history). The company manages a pension portfolio and bears the risk of the investment strategy as it is responsible for the ultimate payment to beneficiaries.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">defined contribution</span> An employer-sponsored retirement plan in which both employer and employee contribute to employee retirement benefits; the employee bears the risk of the investment strategy.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">depreciation</span> An accounting method that spreads the cost of a tangible asset (e.g., a piece of equipment) across its life.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">discount rate</span> A percentage rate a company employs to calculate the present value for a stream of future cash flows. The discount rate should account for factors that impact the time value of money, which typically include inflation and a risk premium.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">discounting</span> A process applied to a series of cash flows over time; discounting brings the value of the future stream of cash to the present value. The discount rate (percentage) accounts for the relevant opportunity costs for the capital providers.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">diversification</span> The allocation of wealth across different companies and across different assets, rather than in concentrated investment positions.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">dividend</span> Cash paid to shareholders on a per share basis to distribute a portion of the free cash generated by the business.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">due diligence</span> The process of examining a project, before completing any agreements, to fully understand all aspects of the project, including values, risks, and expected outcomes.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">DuPont framework</span> An analysis that breaks down a return on equity (ROE) into three components: profitability, productivity, and leverage.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT)</span> Calculated by adding interest and taxes to net profit. Also known as operating profit.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA)</span> A proxy to determine the cash <span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_248" aria-label="248"></span>a business generates by excluding noncash costs and financing costs. Typically calculated by adding depreciation and amortization back to EBIT.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">earnings per share (EPS)</span> The ratio of net profit to the number of shares outstanding.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">EBITDA margin</span> A measure of profitability that uses EBITDA rather than profit as the numerator (EBITDA <span class="gtxt_symbol">÷</span> revenue) in order to shift emphasis to cash.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">efficient market theory</span> An investment theory that emphasizes that share prices reflect all available information and that consistently outperforming the market benchmark is not possible. More specifically, different forms of this theory emphasize distinctive informational conditions of markets.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">endowment funds</span> Institutional funds with the dual purpose of long-term growth and generation of income to provide for the mission of the institution. Common endowment funds include those managed by universities, hospitals, and nonprofit organizations.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">enterprise value</span> The total value of a company that can be calculated as the present value of all future cash flows generated by the company. It can also be calculated as market capitalization of equity plus debt minus excess cash.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">equity analyst</span> An individual, typically employed by an investment bank, who provides research services on public companies to their institutional investor clients. The analyst assesses the value of a stock and will recommend that the client buy, sell, or hold that stock.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">equity issuance</span> When a company sells shares of ownership to raise cash.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">expected return</span> The rate of return an investor expects from an investment based on the risks assumed.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">expected values</span> The sum of probability-weighted outcomes for multiple potential scenarios of a project or acquisition.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">firm value</span> <i>See</i> enterprise value.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">forecasting</span> Using available data and assumptions to develop a set of future incomes, expenses, and cash flows.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">free cash flows (FCF)</span> Cash flows that are available to distribute to investors or to reinvest in the business after the business has covered all its requirements. FCF does not consider the impact of how a business is financed. Calculated by: Free cash flow <span class="gtxt_symbol">=</span> (1 <span class="gtxt_symbol">−</span> tax rate) <span class="gtxt_symbol">×</span> EBIT <span class="gtxt_symbol">+</span> depreciation and amortization <span class="gtxt_symbol">−</span> capital expenditures <span class="gtxt_symbol">−</span> change in net working capital.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">goodwill</span> The value of an intangible asset that is the result of buying another company. Reflects the portion of the purchase cost in excess of the value of the net tangible assets of the acquired business.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">gross margin</span> A measure of profitability that demonstrates what percentage of revenue is left after subtracting the cost <span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_249" aria-label="249"></span>of goods sold from revenues. Calculated by dividing the gross profit by the total revenue for the period. Also known as gross profit margin.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">growing perpetuity</span> Similar to a perpetuity (a stream of cash flows expected to last forever) but growing at a prescribed rate.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">hedge funds</span> Investment funds typically open only to sophisticated investors. Their relatively light regulations compared to those of mutual funds allow them to employ leverage and take on concentrated and short positions.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">hedging</span> An investment strategy that uses offsetting positions to reduce the risk of adverse price movements.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">incentives</span> The perceived rewards that motivate individuals in their roles.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">income statement</span> Financial report that shows the summary of the earnings of a business (revenues minus expenses) over a designated period of time. Shows activity during the period for all nominal accounts.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">industry</span> A part of the economy in which a group of companies provides similar products or services.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">initial public offering (IPO)</span> The process of converting a privately held company to a public company by issuing and selling shares on a stock exchange.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">inorganic growth</span> Growth achieved through the acquisition of other companies or portions of those companies.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">institutional investors</span> Entities that pool capital from various constituents and invest on their behalf (e.g., mutual funds, hedge funds).</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">intangible asset</span> An asset that is not physical (e.g., brands, patents, and copyrights).</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">integration</span> The process of merging the operations of two companies to form a single entity.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">interest coverage ratio</span> Used to assess a company’s financial durability by examining whether it is profitable enough to pay its interest expenses: EBIT <span class="gtxt_symbol">÷</span> interest expense or EBITDA <span class="gtxt_symbol">÷</span> interest expense. The higher the ratio, the better the company’s ability to pay its interest expenses.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">interest rate</span> The return paid by a borrower and received by a lender. Sometimes used interchangeably with discount rate for analyzing the time value of money.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">internal rate of return (IRR)</span> Utilizing the formula for net present value (NPV), the discount rate that brings the NPV to zero. Thus, if an IRR is above a company’s minimum rate of return, then a project is deemed to be worthwhile.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">inventory</span> An asset account that contains materials manufactured or purchased for the purpose of being sold to customers. In its final form, inventory is the product that is being sold; when it is sold, the cost of the inventory that was sold is recognized as an expense, as cost of goods sold. <span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_250" aria-label="250"></span>A manufacturing company may have inventory in various stages of completion, such as raw materials inventory, work-in-process inventory, and finished-goods inventory.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">inventory turnover</span> A ratio used to measure how efficiently a business is managing its inventory levels. Calculated by dividing the cost of goods sold for the period by the average inventory for the period. It represents how many times the inventory was sold during the period. Inventory turnover <span class="gtxt_symbol">=</span> COGS <span class="gtxt_symbol">÷</span> average period inventory.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">investment banks</span> Financial institutions that help companies raise capital, either as debt or equity offerings, and advise companies undergoing mergers and acquisitions.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">investor</span> Any person or entity that invests their own capital in the capital markets across a range of available financial products.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">just-in-time</span> An inventory method that minimizes the time that raw materials, work-in-process, and finished goods inventories are stocked. In other words, inventory turnover is maximized.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">leverage</span> The use of debt as a funding source. A company that is highly leveraged has a large amount of debt financing compared to other funding sources.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">leveraged buyout (LBO)</span> A transaction that employs a large amount of debt to purchase a company from its current owners, often taking a public company private. This allows the purchasers to gain control of a large company for a relatively small equity investment.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">leveraged recapitalizations</span> A financing strategy that increases the amount of debt employed that is accompanied with a payout to equity holders.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">liability</span> An obligation that a company has incurred to pay another entity, including banks, vendors, the government, or employees, or the obligation to provide goods or services in the future.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">liquidity</span> How quickly and easily assets can be converted to cash. For example, accounts receivable are more liquid than inventory because the inventory must be sold to become a receivable and then the receivable must be collected to become cash. Hence, the receivable is one step closer to being converted to cash than the inventory and is, therefore, more liquid.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">market efficiency</span> The concept that a market is efficient, implying that all available information about a stock is built into its price. <i>See</i> efficient market theory.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">market imperfections</span> How reality deviates from an ideal marketplace because of, for example, asymmetric information, transaction costs, or taxes.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">market index</span> A measurement of an aggregation of various stocks. For example, the S&amp;P 500 Index measures <span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_251" aria-label="251"></span>the price movements of five hundred of the largest public companies traded in the United States.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">market risk premium</span> The excess returns investors expect to earn for bearing the risk of holding risky market assets.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">market-to-book ratio</span> A ratio of the market value to the book value.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">market value</span> The value a company or asset would obtain if sold on the open market. Typically, it varies from the book value due to historic cost accounting.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">marketable securities</span> Any security that can be converted to cash relatively easily. Maturity dates are normally one year or less and might include certificates of deposit, treasury bills, or other money market securities.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">maturity date</span> When the principal of a bond is due and the bond is extinguished.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">merger</span> When two companies agree to combine into one new entity.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">multiples</span> A valuation method that compares the values of comparable companies to operating metrics and applies that ratio to the operating metric of the entity being valued.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">mutual funds</span> Funds that pool the capital of many individual investors into one fund with a mission to follow a specified investment strategy, ranging from investing in narrow industry segments to mimicking the broad market as an index fund. The fund is priced at net asset value (NAV); investors purchase or sell shares of the mutual fund based on this price.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">net debt</span> A leverage metric that incorporates cash held by companies and considers cash as negative debt.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">net present value (NPV)</span> The result of subtracting the initial investment in a project from the present value of future cash flows. A positive NPV project is considered to be a valid potential investment.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">net profit</span> A company’s total earnings (or profit). Although net profit can be a negative number, this does not always indicate that a company is in poor financial health. Calculated by subtracting all expenses (cash and noncash) from revenue. Also known as net income.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">notes payable</span> A liability account for debts that are due in the near future.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">operating income</span> <i>See</i> earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and operating profit.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">opportunity cost</span> The foregone returns from an opportunity not pursued.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">organic growth</span> Growth achieved by investing in projects within the company to generate positive free cash flows.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">other assets</span> An asset account that contains any assets that do not fit into a defined category (such as inventory or accounts receivable). Other current assets are assets that <span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_252" aria-label="252"></span>do not include cash, securities, receivables, inventory, and prepaid assets, and can be convertible into cash within one business cycle, which is usually one year. Other noncurrent assets include items that are not included in long-term assets (such as property, plant, and equipment).</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">passive mutual funds</span> Mutual funds that invest in indices such as the S&amp;P 500 and don’t allow for discretionary choices by their managers.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">payables period</span> A component of the cash conversion cycle that measures the average number of days a company waits to pay its suppliers for items purchased on credit.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">payback period</span> The length of time required for a series of positive cash flows to recoup the investment made in a project, asset, or company. It is typically calculated without consideration of the time value of money.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">pension funds</span> Funds that invest the accumulated money an organization sets aside for the future payout of retirement benefits to its employees. Pension funds invest in the capital markets with the goals of growth for their funds as well as current and future cash flows for their beneficiaries.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">perfect information</span> A situation in which every market player has access to the same information.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">perpetuity</span> An unchanging stream of cash flows that is expected to last forever.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">preferred stock</span> A special class of stock that differs from common stock because of preferential dividend rights, voting rights, or liquidation rights.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">present value</span> The discounting of a stream of future cash flows at a prescribed discount rate, resulting in the current value of these cash flows.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">price-to-earnings ratio</span> The ratio of the price of a share for a company to the earnings per share.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">principal-agent problem</span> A problem occurring when tasks are delegated by a principal to an agent in a setting characterized by conflicting objectives and imperfect information.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">principle of conservatism</span> A principle recognizing that some estimates are involved in accounting and that accounting should reflect the more cautious estimated valuation rather than the more optimistic one. For assets, it means recording the lower valuation, while for liabilities, it means recording the higher possible valuation. For revenues and gains, it means recording them when they are reasonably certain, but for expenses and losses, it means recording them when they are reasonably possible.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">private equity</span> A source of capital that provides equity or debt financing to private companies outside the public capital markets. Included are private equity firms, venture capitalists, and angel investors. Investment strategies can <span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_253" aria-label="253"></span>encompass new startups, growth capital, the turnaround of distressed companies, or funding management or leveraged buyouts.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">productivity</span> A number of measures for output per unit of input for any type of business activity. Example measures include revenue per employee hour, or revenue over assets.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">profitability</span> A number of measures that divide a net amount (after deducting some or all costs) by revenue. Examples include gross profit, operating profit, and net profit.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">profit margin</span> The ratio of gross operating or net profit to revenue for a company.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">property, plant, and equipment (PP&amp;E)</span> An asset account that contains physical assets of a company that are used either directly or indirectly in the normal course of generating the product or service of the company, including land, machinery, buildings, office equipment, vehicles, and other physical assets with significant cost. Gross PP&amp;E is typically the amount originally invested; net PP&amp;E reflects accumulated depreciation of these assets.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">quick ratio</span> A measure of a business’s ability to pay its short-term obligations that is a more stringent test than the current ratio. Calculated by subtracting inventory from current assets, then dividing the result by current liabilities.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">ratio</span> A method of comparing two related items by dividing one by the other. For example, total debt <span class="gtxt_symbol">÷</span> total assets calculates the amount of assets financed by debt.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">receivables collection period</span> A component of the cash conversion cycle that measures, in days, how quickly a company collects payments from customers who pay on credit.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">recession</span> A prolonged decline in economic activity.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">return</span> Money made or lost on an investment.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">return on assets (ROA)</span> An indicator of how effectively a company is generating profit based on its asset base. Calculated as net profit <span class="gtxt_symbol">÷</span> total assets.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">return on capital (ROC)</span> The return received by capital (debt and equity) providers divided by the capital provided. Calculated by dividing EBIT by the value of debt and equity. Also known as return on capital employed (ROCE) or return on invested capital (ROIC).</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">return on equity (ROE)</span> The return that an owner receives on the equity invested in the business. Calculated by dividing net profit by average total owners’ equity.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">revenue</span> The gross receipts from normal business activities.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">risk</span> A broad term for the variability of outcomes that most individuals will prefer to avoid given their risk aversion.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">risk-free rate</span> The interest rate for a borrower when there is no possibility of a default. The interest rate for US government debt is the most common standard.</p>
<p class="GL"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_254" aria-label="254"></span><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">rounds of funding</span> The sequential issuance of stock by a startup in exchange for funding. Also known as venture capital funding rounds.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">scenario analysis</span> A method of projecting possible future outcomes and associating them with specific probabilities.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">security</span> A financial instrument that represents a claim on corporate assets.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">sell side</span> The opposite of the buy side; includes all parties involved in creating and selling equity and debt financial instruments. Investment bankers, traders, and some analysts are all considered part of the sell side.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">shareholders’ equity</span> The residual claim belonging to the shareholders of the business. After adding up all the resources of the business (assets) and subtracting all the claims that third parties (such as lenders and suppliers) have against those assets, the residual (what is left over) is shareholders’ equity. It includes two elements: money contributed to (invested in) a business in exchange for some degree of ownership, and earnings that the business generates and retains over time. Also commonly known as common stock, owners’ equity, stockholders’ equity, net worth, or equity.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">Sharpe ratio</span> A measurement of return per unit of risk where risk is often defined in terms of the standard deviation of returns.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">short selling</span> The process of borrowing shares, selling those shares, rebuying them at a lower price, and then returning those shares, thereby profiting from the price decline. This strategy is designed to capitalize on the potential downward movement of stocks or for hedging purposes.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">signalling</span> To indirectly provide information to investors or the marketplace via a financial transaction such as a dividend or buyback.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">sovereign wealth funds</span> A state-owned fund that invests on behalf of its citizens, often funded from natural resource royalties such as oil revenue. The goal of these funds is to seek long-term growth and to fund future payouts to the citizenry.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">spot market</span> A marketplace or exchange where a financial instrument or commodity is purchased for immediate delivery. The opposite of the futures market in which the purchaser agrees to pay a price for the item at a future date.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">statement of cash flows</span> A financial report that shows the net change in cash during the year and includes three sections: cash flows from operating activities, cash flows from investing activities, and cash flows from financing activities.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">stock buyback</span> A company’s purchase, at management’s discretion, of its own shares as part of a capital allocation strategy. Also known as stock repurchase.</p>
<p class="GL"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_255" aria-label="255"></span><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">stock options</span> The right, but not the obligation, to either buy or sell a share at a predetermined price by a certain date.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">stock split</span> The division of existing shares into new shares, with the effect of splitting the value of each existing share into a different number of shares.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">sunk costs</span> Any cost incurred by a business in the past that should not be considered for decision making.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">synergies</span> The value created by merging two companies in excess of the sum of their individual market values.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">systematic risk</span> The risk of a financial security that cannot be eliminated by diversification.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">terminal value</span> A valuation method employed to capture the value of all future cash flows at some future date without forecasting those cash flows forever.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">time horizon</span> The length of time over which an investment is made or held before it is liquidated.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">time value of money</span> The concept that a unit of currency received today is worth more than the same unit of currency received at some future point. Arises because of the opportunity cost of not having the currency immediately.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">traders</span> Individuals who purchase or sell stocks on their own behalf rather than as an agent for their clients, as would be the case for a broker. In the process, they provide liquidity to a market and attempt to earn returns over relatively short horizons based on these transactions.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">valuation</span> The process of determining the value of a company, project, or asset.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">value neutrality</span> The proposition that market values do not change because of certain changes such as financing transactions.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">venture capital</span> A source of investment capital focused on startup and small businesses. These are typically high-risk investments that are believed to have high future growth potential. The company is a private entity not listed on any public exchange.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">volatility</span> A measure of the degree to which a variable deviates from its own average through time.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">weighted average cost of capital (WACC)</span> The cost of capital (%) for a company that considers the cost of debt and equity, the relevant capital structure, and the associated tax benefit of issuing debt.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">working capital</span> The amount of capital required to fund basic operations of a company, often calculated as the difference between current assets and current liabilities, or inventories <span class="gtxt_symbol">+</span> accounts receivables <span class="gtxt_symbol">−</span> accounts payable.</p>
<p class="GL"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_13005">yield curve</span> A line that represents the interest rate or yield of the same quality bond across maturity dates.</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>