<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>How Finance Works</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="body">
<section epub:type="introduction" role="doc-introduction" aria-labelledby="int">
<p class="sp"> </p>
<hgroup>
<h1 class="CTINT" id="int"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_1" aria-label="1"></span><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Introduction</span></h1>
</hgroup>
<p class="noindent"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_3" aria-label="3"></span>For many, finance is cloaked in mystery and quite intimidating. This unfortunate outcome is no coincidence. Many in finance like to shroud what they do in order to intimidate outsiders. But if you want to progress in your career, you’ll need to engage deeply in finance—it is the language of business, the lifeblood of the economy, and increasingly a dominant force in capitalism. So neglecting finance and hoping to survive meetings by thoughtfully nodding your head is an increasingly untenable choice.</p>
<p>Fortunately, you can learn the central intuitions of finance without mastering the intricacies of spreadsheet modeling or the pricing of derivatives. This book aims to provide you with the most central intuitions of finance so that you will never find finance intimidating again. Mastering the intuitions won’t make you a financial engineer—there are likely more than enough of those. Instead, internalizing these intuitions will provide the foundation for addressing financial issues with confidence and curiosity for the rest of your life.</p>
<p>The book emerged from my efforts to teach finance to MBA students, law students, executives, and undergraduates with a wide variety of backgrounds. During the last two decades of teaching, I’ve emphasized diagrams, graphs, and real-world examples over equations and Mickey Mouse numerical examples in an effort to preserve relevance while also <span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_4" aria-label="4"></span>shearing off unneeded complexity. In the process, I’ve found that it’s possible to maintain rigor without being overly precise. I’ll try to do the same in the pages that follow.</p>
<section epub:type="division">
<h1 class="head a-head"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Prerequisites</span></h1>
<p class="noindent">My father spent his career in marketing for pharmaceutical companies in Asia and the United States. At age fifty-eight, he turned to finance for a rewarding second career that lasted more than a decade. He combined a deep understanding of the industry with newfound financial expertise to become an equity research analyst. But it was a difficult journey.</p>
<p>During that decade, I was learning finance as an analyst on Wall Street, as a graduate student, and as a young professor. We had long conversations in which he would ask me about the many things that he would encounter in this foreign world of finance that he didn’t understand. As I tried to communicate the intuitions for price-earnings multiples and discounted cash flows, he showed me the power of curiosity and perseverance as he made that difficult transition.</p>
<p>The only prerequisites for this book are those same two qualities: curiosity and perseverance. With sufficient curiosity about finance, you’ll have the questions that will guide your learning through these chapters. And with sufficient perseverance, you can work your way through the harder material and know that you will arrive at the other side with a deeper appreciation for finance and a toolkit for your professional life. I hope you’ll find it both demanding and worthwhile.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division">
<h1 class="head a-head"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Intended Audience</span></h1>
<p class="noindent">This book is for everyone who wants to deepen their understanding of finance. Those new to finance will find material that is accessible and provides core intuitive building blocks and the foundations to start speaking about finance. Those immersed in finance know that it is easier to “talk the talk” of finance than it is to “walk the walk.” The central intuitions of finance are slippery, and the book will provide an opportunity for them to deepen their understanding beyond the rote application of ideas or terms. Ambitious executives will be able to reflect on their many interactions with financial experts and investors and engage with them more meaningfully.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division">
<h1 class="head a-head"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">A Road Map</span></h1>
<p class="noindent">You can dip in and out of this book as you desire or as questions in your workplace arise, almost like a reference book. But the book has been architected consciously and is meant <span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_5" aria-label="5"></span>to be read through from front to back. The chapters build on each other.</p>
<section epub:type="division">
<h2 class="head b-head"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Chapter 1: Financial Analysis</span></h2>
<p class="noindent">We will begin by creating a foundation in financial analysis that provides much of the language of finance. How do you interpret economic performance using historical financial accounts? What do all those ratios and numbers mean? A challenging but fun game will allow you to see the real-world relevance of the many ratios that finance focuses on. By design, this chapter stands apart from the rest of the book. Hands-on and interactive, it’s an expansive introduction and warm-up before moving into other parts of the book.</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division">
<h2 class="head b-head"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Chapter 2: The Finance Perspective</span></h2>
<p class="noindent">Many think that financial analysis and ratios are what finance is all about. In fact, it’s just the beginning—to see that, we’ll establish two foundations of the finance perspective: cash matters more than profits; and the future matters more than the past and the present. What are the true sources of economic returns? Why might accounting be problematic? If the future matters so much, how do we arrive at values <i>today</i> based on those future cash flows?</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division">
<h2 class="head b-head"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Chapter 3: The Financial Ecosystem</span></h2>
<p class="noindent">The world of finance—of hedge funds, activist investors, investment banks, and analysts—can seem baffling and somewhat opaque. But it is critical to understand that world as you progress in finance and as a manager. We’ll try to answer two questions: Why is the financial system so complex? Could there be an easier way?</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division">
<h2 class="head b-head"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Chapter 4: Sources of Value Creation</span></h2>
<p class="noindent">The most critical questions in finance relate to the origins of value creation and how to measure it. We’ll dig deeper into some of the tools developed in <a href="../Text/chapter_2.xhtml">chapter 2</a> to answer many questions: Where does value come from? What does it mean to create value? What is a cost of capital? How do you measure risk?</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division">
<h2 class="head b-head"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Chapter 5: The Art and Science of Valuation</span></h2>
<p class="noindent">Valuation is a critical step in all investment decisions. In this chapter, we’ll explore how valuation is an art informed by science and outline what the art is and what the science is. How do you know how much a company is worth? What investments are worth making? And how can we avoid the most common pitfalls in valuation?</p>
</section>
<section epub:type="division">
<h2 class="head b-head"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_6" aria-label="6"></span><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Chapter 6: Capital Allocation</span></h2>
<p class="noindent">Finally, we’ll examine a fundamental problem that preoccupies financial managers at every company—what to do with excess cash flows. This chapter integrates much of what we’ve learned along the way. Should you invest in new projects? Should you return cash to shareholders? If so, how?</p>
</section>
</section>
<section epub:type="division">
<h1 class="head a-head"><span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_95_Black_B_11">Guides to the World of Finance</span></h1>
<p class="noindent">Throughout, we’ll rely on five individuals who bring their insights and experiences from the real world to accompany the book’s conceptual framework. I have chosen them to provide multiple perspectives on the financial ecosystem developed in <a href="../Text/chapter_3.xhtml">chapter 3</a>.</p>
<p>Two chief financial officers (CFOs) represent corporations, two investors represent both private and public perspectives, and an equity research analyst (like my father) stands in the middle of the financial ecosystem.</p>
<p>The first CFO, Laurence Debroux, is the CFO of Heineken, a global beverage company with operations in more than a hundred countries. Debroux went to business school in France, joined an investment bank, and then decided to move to the corporate side. Having served as the CFO of a number of companies, she’s a great guide to thinking about how corporations around the world invest and how they interact with capital markets.</p>
<p>The second CFO is Paul Clancy, former CFO of Biogen, a global biotechnology company. Clancy spent a number of years at PepsiCo before becoming CFO at Biogen. He provides a particularly valuable perspective on how to think about funding innovation and R&amp;D activities.</p>
<p>The first investor is Alan Jones of Morgan Stanley, the global head of private equity for the investment bank. Jones and his team find undervalued companies and try to buy them on behalf of clients.</p>
<p>The second investor protagonist is Jeremy Mindich, a cofounder of Scopia Capital. Mindich began as a journalist but realized that his ability to dig deep into companies would help him succeed in finance as well. After working for various hedge funds, he cofounded Scopia Capital, now a multibillion-dollar hedge fund in New York. As a hedge fund manager, Mindich is constantly evaluating companies, determining whether they’re under- or overvalued.</p>
<p>The two investors will explain how they assess companies, value them, and subsequently try to create value with their investments.</p>
<p><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_7" aria-label="7"></span>The fifth expert is Alberto Moel, formerly of Bernstein, an equity research analysis firm. Moel interacts regularly with companies by talking to CFOs and CEOs and providing recommendations to investors. He’ll show how analysts examine companies, figure out what’s going on inside them, and determine their value, in effect serving as a bridge between the corporations represented by Debroux and Clancy and the investors represented by Jones and Mindich.</p>
<p>Together, they’ll ground our insights in the real world and help you understand how to use these lessons in practice. The implications for practice will also be featured in brief Real-World Perspectives throughout the book and extended case studies, called Ideas in Action, that conclude the chapters. Reflections are occasional questions that relate to the ideas in the chapter, and every chapter ends with questions that cover all the relevant material.</p>
<p>So let’s start with a little game.</p>
</section>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>