<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xml:lang="en"
      lang="en"
      xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
      xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title>How Finance Works</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../override_v1.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<div id="book-content">
<div id="sbo-rt-content"><div class="body">
<section epub:type="frontmatter">
<p class="sp1" id="pra"> </p>
<p class="FSQ"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_a" aria-label="a"></span>“As a chief financial officer, I recognize how critical it is to communicate financial intuitions clearly, early, and often within an organization. Within technology companies, financial fluency is an essential component of evaluating new and disruptive innovations, and the ability to bridge technology and finance is not widespread. For finance practitioners and general managers, Mihir’s book provides the perfect combination of intuitive explanations, contemporary examples, and rigor so that both finance pros and novices can truly enhance their capabilities.”</p>
<p class="FSQC">—<span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_11">HELEN RILEY,</span> Chief Financial Officer, Google X</p>
<p class="FSQ">“Professor Desai’s class at Harvard Business School was one of my favorites because it helped me understand critical financial questions that underpin every industry, including technology. This book re-creates that experience by combining Desai’s methods of teaching the fundamentals, giving students the tools to build intuition, and testing those skills through a variety of real-life cases. Informative and engaging, this book will arm you with knowledge and, more important, help build your intuition around a variety of financial and business-related situations. This is a must-read for business students and aspiring business leaders—or anyone looking to deepen their understanding of finance.”</p>
<p class="FSQC">—<span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_11">MARNE LEVINE,</span> Chief Operating Officer, Instagram</p>
<p class="FSQ">“Professor Desai has accomplished a rare feat: transforming the typically complex and often dry subject of finance into a lively and accessible tour de force, without trivializing its importance. On the contrary, he persuasively argues that finance is the lifeblood of the economy and therefore a construct everyone should understand. But it’s not just about crunching numbers and knowing how to read a balance sheet, both of which are lucidly explained here. As in his previous work, Professor Desai takes pains to remind us of the larger issues at stake: the true essence of finance is about information and incentives and trying to solve capitalism’s fundamental problem of allocating capital to generate value. As the CEO of a firm dedicated to long-term investing, I wholeheartedly welcome the light he casts on creating and measuring that value.”</p>
<p class="FSQC">—<span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_11">CYRUS TARAPOREVALA,</span> President and CEO, State Street Global Advisors</p>
<p class="FSQ">“Professor Mihir Desai’s advice—both practical and witty—was an inspiration when I was a student at Harvard Business School and a guiding light for me as an entrepreneur just starting out on my S’well journey. I’m thrilled that he’s written this book so that even more people can benefit from his wisdom!”</p>
<p class="FSQC">—<span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_11">SARAH KAUSS,</span> founder and CEO, S’well</p>
<p class="FSQ"><span role="doc-pagebreak" id="pg_b" aria-label="b"></span>“To those who are not in the discipline, finance is like a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma, filled with buzzwords, accounting ratios, and complex institutional details. While this plays into the hands of financial consultants and bankers who charge hefty prices for unraveling these unknowns, Mihir Desai’s book on how finance works is masterful at laying bare the simple truths and the commonsense principles that underlie much of finance. It leads readers on a tour of the key concepts, institutions, and tools in finance with humor and grace, and readers, no matter what their background or interests, will come out more informed and enlightened by the journey.”</p>
<p class="FSQC">—<span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_11">ASWATH DAMODARAN,</span> Professor of Finance, NYU Stern School of Business; author, <i>The Little Book of Valuation</i></p>
<p class="FSQ">“For anyone who wants to be able to utilize financial information, whether as a firm lawyer, a general counsel, or in business generally, <i>How Finance Works</i> provides clarity and guidance to what can be, for many, an intimidating arena. Mihir Desai is an outstanding professor, and the strengths that make him such an outstanding professor—humor; explaining complexity with ease; ensuring that his students learn how to access financial information themselves rather than deferring to others, through the use of games and problem solving; and his encouragement to simply look for interesting things rather than pretending to be a financial analyst—are all present in this book. <i>How Finance Works</i> is a pleasure to read and invaluable in daily use.”</p>
<p class="FSQC">—<span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_11">DAVID WOLFSON,</span> Executive Director, Milbank, Tweed, Hadley &amp; McCloy</p>
<p class="FSQ">“Finally, someone has provided a mechanism for gaining <i>intuition</i> about finance for those of us who deliberately avoided any financial studies in school—physicians! Recognizing that the only way health care can evolve is by accepting that it is, in fact, a business, <i>How Finance Works</i> gives those of us engaged in health care leadership the opportunity to sit with ‘the big folks’ without defaulting to the chief financial officers at the table. Most physicians have absolutely no concept of finance and are intimidated by spreadsheets and CFOs. Desai provides a welcome rescue!”</p>
<p class="FSQC">—<span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_11">MICHAEL JAFF, MD,</span> President, Newton-Wellesley Hospital</p>
<p class="FSQ">“Leading a global technology company in a world awash in change requires a lot of things, one of which is being comfortable in the realm of finance, even if you came up through the leadership ranks by other means. Mihir manages to make finance fun and accessible—and, by the end of it, you’ll have the confidence, intuition, and understanding you need to succeed as a leader or executive in any organization.</p>
<p class="FSQC">—<span class="SANS_Avenir_LT_Std_85_Heavy_B_11">JENNIFER MORGAN,</span> President, Americas and Asia Pacific Japan, SAP</p>
</section>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>